All right let's go ahead and add in that detail.
So first off I'm going to merge these two layers together so my clipping mask and my Karaite select
both those and merge.
So that's one layer.
So now we're going to be able to mess around with this a blue shadow.
Next I'm going to go ahead and select my dark blue shadow from this side.
And what I'm going to do with this is I'm going to use that to create the nailheads on my crate.
The reason why I'm using this blue color is because when you use the same colors in an asset it tends
to pull it all together and make it look nicer.
So I'm going to go ahead and add that in there.
And they're there too far over.
And the reason why it painted them like ellipses rather than circles is because we're looking at it
from an angle.
And so they're going to get squashed because of perspective.
Next I'm going to go ahead and grab a little bit lighter version of this.
So maybe up there I'll go ahead and paint.
And on top of that like so they're on there and a little bit right there.
Perfect next.
Let's go ahead and wrestle at this dark shadow color on the blue side.
Let's go ahead and paint in our nails on this side.
And then we're going to go ahead and select a lighter version of that.
So it's colors here.
Go ahead and paint that in just like so.
Now these may seem like tiny little details that nobody will notice but trust me this is what's going
to differentiate your artwork and make it look better than everybody else's is.
The tiny little details next.
Let's go ahead and add in those cuts and scrapes.
So what I'm going to do is to select my dark shadow colors here and then I'm gonna go ahead and shrink
my brushes down as small as possible and I'm going to pick some places where I want these cuts and gashes
to be so when I put one right here
I just want them to be basically straight lines that kind of come to more of a point so they can start
out fatter and then come to a point.
I'm also going to add one or two here and this one is actually going to travel across to the other side
like so perfect and then I might add one out here on the outside.
And then look at some on the other side too.
But we're going to select our dark blue color because that's the shadow color on our shadow side.
So what they're looking at here you can also hold down shift and click in another spot to get that straight
line.
And maybe you will add one more up here.
So right there.
This will be a little bit faster.
Perfect.
Next what we want to do is we want to select or highlight color.
So coming over here I'm going to select this color right there and we want to make sure that we select
the highlight color that's nearest to it.
That way it's going to look more natural and not stand out as much as if we were to take this brighter
colors here and highlight to this.
So make sure you use the highlight color nearest to the cut and they're going to highlight the bottom
side of cut because that's the side that would be getting hit by the light just like so let's do the
same for other one.
So we'll select this highlight color here go and add that highlight an and whenever it goes across sort
of one of these would grains you can kind of leave some of that highlight out as it would probably not
be showing up because I would be going down into the crack of the wood grain.
Let's go ahead and add this to the other parts.
Add it to this underside.
Same here.
You saw how I kind of skipped that area.
That goes down into the grain.
Now let's do this.
So we're just going to select our highlight color in there.
Great.
Lastly what we want to do is want to go ahead and blend this edgin.
So it's not such a hard line.
So what I'm going to do is I'm gonna go ahead and select this color and then use my brush tool and putting
my brush opacity at 30 percent.
I'm going to go ahead and brush in along the edge like so and then I'm going to select this color that
we got out of that.
The mid color.
And then I'm going to bring my Bursch opacity back up to 100 percent.
Now I can paint over that edge like so and that's going to give me a nice blend between those two colors.
As we get up here to this area what we want to do is we want to select sort of this darker shadow color
and then we're going to bring our brush opacity back down to 30 percent paint right there the most select
this mid color.
Then come back to our brush tool bring our brush capacity back up to 100 percent and then continue to
paint that in
Awesome our wooden crate looks pretty dang good.
You should be very proud of yourself.
Now let's go ahead and see you this out so that you can share it to the Q&A section of the course.
So I'm going to go ahead and turn off this frame right here and I've already turned off my background
drawing and then I'm going to grab my crop tool which has this tool right underneath my lasso tool.
So I'm going to go ahead and click that.
So I click it and now I can grab these corners.
I can drag them in like so.
And crop this image to the correct size.
So right about there should be good square head and hit enter.
Now once you've done this I want you to go ahead and save this as a Photoshop document.
So you don't lose your work.
But then I also want you to save it out as a J.
The way you save it as a JPEG is by coming up to file save as and then you're going to come down here
to so save as type and you're going to change that from a photoshop file to a j peg.
Or you can save it as a P G.
It doesn't really matter.
Let's go ahead and hit save.
Awesome.
So once you've saved this.
Go ahead and share it to the Q and A section of the course.
I'm super excited to see your work and thanks for joining me in this lecture.